when I was a kid I was obsessed with the
Guinness Book of World Records and I
really wanted to set a world record
myself but there was just one small
problem I had absolutely no talent
so I decided to set a world record in
something that demanded absolutely no
skill at all I decided to set a world
record in crawling now the record of the
time was 12 and a half miles and for
some reason this seemed totally
manageable I recruited my friend Ann and
together we decided we didn't even need
to train
and on the day of our record attempt we
put furniture pads on the outside of our
Goodluck jeans and we set off and right
away we were in trouble because the
denim was against our skin and it began
to chafe and soon our knees were being
chewed up ours in it began to rain then
and dropped out then it got dark now by
now my knees were bleeding through my
jeans and I was hallucinating from the
cold and the pain and the monotony and
to give you an idea of the sufferfest
that I was undergoing the first lap
around the high school track took ten
minutes the last lap took almost 30
after 12 hours of crawling I stopped and
I had gone eight and a half miles so I
was short of the 12 and a half mile
record now for many years I thought this
was a story of abject failure but today
I see it differently because when I was
attempting the world record I was doing
three things I was getting outside my
comfort zone
I was calling upon my resilience and I
was finding confidence in myself and my
own decisions I didn't know it then but
those are not the attributes of failure
those are the attributes of bravery now
in 1989 at the age of 26 I became a San
Francisco firefighter and I was the 15th
woman in a department of 1500 men
and as you can imagine when I arrived
there were many doubts about whether we
could do the job so even though I was a
510 150 pound collegiate rower and
someone who could endure 12 hours of
searing knee pain I knew I still had to
prove my strength and fitness so one day
a call came in for a fire and sure
enough when my entrant who pulled up
there was black smoke billowing from a
building off an alleyway and I was with
a big guy named skip and he was on the
nozzle and I was right behind and it was
a typical sort of fire it was smoky it
was hot and all of a sudden there was an
explosion and skip and I were blown
backwards my mask was knocked sideways
and there was this moment of confusion
and then I picked myself up I groped for
the nozzle and I did what a firefighter
was supposed to do I lunge forward
opened up the water and I tackle the
fire myself the explosion that caused by
a water heater so nobody was hurt
ultimately it was not a big deal but
later skip came up to me and said nice
job Caroline in this surprise sort of
voice and I was confused because the
fire hadn't been difficult physically so
why was he looking at me with something
like astonishment and then it became
clear skip who was by the way a really
nice guy and an excellent firefighter
not only thought that women could not be
strong he thought that they could not be
brave either he wasn't the only one
friends acquaintances and strangers men
and women throughout my career asked me
over and over Caroline all that fire all
that danger aren't you scared honestly I
never heard a male firefighter ask this
and I became curious why wasn't bravery
expected of women now the answer began
to come when a friend of mine lamented
to me that her young daughter was a big
scaredy cat
so I began to notice and yes the
daughter was anxious but more than that
the parents were anxious most of what
they said to her when she was outside
began with be careful watch out or no
now my friends were not bad parents they
were just doing what most parents do
which is cautioning their daughters much
more than they caution their sons there
was a study involving a playground fire
pole ironically in which researchers saw
that little girls were very likely to be
warned by both their moms and dads about
the fire poles risk and if the little
girl still wanted to play on the fire
pole a parent was very likely to a
sister but the little boys they were
encouraged to play on the fire pole
despite any trepidation that they might
have and often the parents offered
guidance on how to use it on their own
so what message does it send both boys
and girls well the girls are fragile and
more in need of help and the boys can
and should master difficult tasks by
themselves it says that girls should be
fearful and boys should be gutsy now the
irony is is that at this young age girls
and boys are actually very alike
physically in fact girls are often
stronger until puberty and more mature
and yet we adults act as if girls are
more fragile and more in need of health
and they can't handle as much this is
the message that we absorb as kids and
this is a message that fully permeates
as we grow up we women believe it men
believe it and guess what
as we become parents we pass it on to
our children and so it goes well so now
I had my answer this is why women even
fire women were expected to be scared
this is why women often are scared now I
know some of you won't believe me when I
tell you this but I am NOT against fear
I know it's an important emotion
and it's there to keep us safe but the
problem is when fear is the primary
reaction that we teach and encouraging
girls whenever they face something
outside their comfort zone so I was a
paraglider pilot for many years and if
paraglider is a parachute like wing and
it does fly very well but too many
people I realize it looks just like a
bedsheet with strings attached and I
spent a lot of time on mountaintops
inflating this bedsheet running off and
flying and I know what you're thinking
you're like Caroline a little fear would
make sense here and you're right it does
I assure you I did feel fear but on that
mountaintop waiting for the wind to come
in just right
I felt so many other things to
exhilaration confidence I knew I was a
good pilot
I knew the conditions were good or I
wouldn't be there I knew how great it
was going to be a thousand feet in the
air so yes fear was there but I would
take a good hard look at it assess just
how relevant it was and then put it
where it belonged
which was more often enough behind my
exhalation my anticipation and my
confidence so I'm not against fear I'm
just pro bravery now I'm not saying your
girls must be firefighters or that they
should be paragliders but I am saying
that we are raising our girls to be
timid even helpless and it begins when
we caution them against physical risk
the fear we learn and the experiences we
don't stay with us as we become women
and morph into all those things that we
face and try to shed our hesitation and
speaking out our deference so that we
can be liked and our lack of confidence
in our own decisions so how do we become
brave well here's the good news
bravery is learned and like anything
learned it just needs to be practiced so
first
we have to take a deep breath and
encourage our girls to skateboard climb
trees and clamber around on that
playground fire pole this is what my own
mother did she didn't know it then but
researchers have a name for this they
call it risky play and studies show that
risky play is really important for kids
all kids because it teaches hazard
assessment it teaches the late
gratification
it teaches resilience it teaches
confidence in other words when kids get
outside and practice bravery they learn
valuable life lessons second we have to
stop cautioning our girls willy nilly
so notice next time you say watch out
you're going to get hurt or don't do
that it's dangerous and remember that
often what you're really telling her is
that you shouldn't be pushing herself
that she's really not good enough that
she should be afraid
third we women have to start practicing
bravery too we cannot teach our girls
until we teach ourselves so here's
another thing fear and
feel very similar the shaky hands the
heightened heartrate the nervous tension
and I'm betting that for many of you the
last time you thought you were scared
out of your wits you may have been
feeling mostly exhilaration and now
you've missed an opportunity so practice
and while girls should be getting
outside to learn to be gutsy I get that
adults don't want to get on hoverboards
or climb trees so you guys should be we
all should be practicing at home in the
office and even right here getting up
the guts to talk to someone that you
really admire finally when your girl is
let's say on her bike on the top of a
steep hill that she insists she's too
scared to go down tighter to access her
bravery ultimately maybe that
oh really is too steep but she'll come
to that conclusion through courage not
fear because this is not about the steep
hill in front of her this is about the
life ahead of her and that she has the
tools to handle and assess all the
dangers that we cannot protect her from
all the challenges that we won't be
there to guide her through everything
that our girls here and around the world
face in their future so by the way the
world record for crawling today is
thirty five point one eight mile and I
would really love to see a girl go break
that
[Applause]